OK.
So we have everything set up so that we can actually start writing or single page app code.
We can make our first request and what we're going to do is when the page loads.
So when I hit refresh here get rid of that obnoxious alert we want to go get everything from the database.
We're going to request slash API slash to Due's using Jay query will use get Jaison dollar sign get
Jay song will give us these results or whatever's in our database and then we're going to loop through
them and insert a new list item for each one of those.
So that when we refresh the page we get the most recent data.
So it is single page functionality even though it will look the same to a user as a non-single page
up because we're refreshing the page.
The data shows up.
That's pretty standard but then we'll get to creating updating and deleting which are things you can
only do with a single page app with Ajax if you want it to happen without a page refresh.
OK let's go over here and in our app.
Yes.
The first thing I'm going to do is just add a document ready.
So if you're not familiar with this this is a query function that any code we put in here will wait
to run until the Dom has loaded.
So what I can put everything in here.
But we want to put things like going and fetching the data we want to wait until the DOM is ready so
that we have something to insert the data into.
So technically we'd probably be fine without it because it's going to take a little bit to fetch the
data and bring it back compared to our Dom getting ready but it's still good practice to wait.
Also code 9 does not like our dollar sign.
It's just a splinter.
That's basically not recognizing where we define dollar sign because we did it in another file.
If that bothers you you can turn it off.
You can add this if you see in this tool tip add a global dollar sign at the top so we can do that slash
asterisk or global.
And then dollar sign and it goes away.
So not necessary.
I hesitate to keep it here because people will assume that it's doing something magical for our code.
It's just for the cloud nine Lanting anyway.
So what we want to do when the downloads we want to go request that you are will slash API slash to
do's and the way that we do that from here is we're going to request slash API slash to because remember
we're already on this path right here.
So let me copy that overseed you can see it.
This is where our code is running from.
So all we need to do.
And of course your you IRL here will be different but all we need to add on is the slash API slash to
do.
It's a relative path.
We're requesting our own server.
So we'll do a dollar sign I get Jaison because we're getting JSA on.
So why not use the shortcut then.
And what will we do.
Well let's just start by looking at our data.
So we're going to constantly log data and just leave it at that.
So page loads d'armes ready send a request get request to slash API slash traduce get the data back.
We assume it's going to work.
We don't have a catch or anything yet.
And then we'll print the data.
So let's see what happens save.
So if we open up our console and refresh the page you'll see depending on what you have in your database
which hopefully you have something to look at if you don't send a couple of post requests get some data
in there.
I have for three of them are byde she is one of them by car.
That's OK.
We'll get some more interesting data in there.
So I've got four of them coming back.
We're making our first successful request to our own API.
So now the question is what do we do with them.
How do we add them to the page.
And if you go to our app.
Yes.
Rather than doing it all in here I'm going to define a separate function down here and I'm just going
to call it ad to deuce and it's going to take in that array of to do's and then we will add to use to
the page
so up here and to keep my get Jaison really quick and short.
So then and we're just going to add to do.
So we're not going to worry too much about handling errors in this example.
But of course you can just add on your dumb catch and handle your error however you want if you want
to alert the user.
You want to update a display on the page whatever you want to do.
So in add to do's the real thing that we want to do is loop through each to do remember it in an array.
And at the beginning at least we want to take the name and just append that to the page as a list item
and ally.
So we're going to go back here and well I'm going to leave that comment is loop through.
So that's going to be to use before I forget I can change my spaces here as well.
Tu's bothers me when that gets out of hand.
OK to use dot for each
so for each single to do what are we going to do.
Well we're going to take that to do dot name and we could just cancel that log that make sure that works
and every go we only see two things.
In my case because Chrome is consolidating the first three but it's printing out three different things.
Perfect.
So rather than doing that we're going to want to make a new ally.
So I'm going to make a variable was going to call it new to do equals and I'll do dollar sign for not
super familiar with Jay queery some of this might be new but I'm going to lie and then I'm going to
add in to dot name and then I'll add in the closing ally like that.
So this just makes us an allied tag and then I'm going to append that to our page and more specifically
append it to our UL with the class of list.
So I'm just going to do a dollar sign atlast to select that you will append new to do.
OK.
So that's our new to do.
We are creating it here as an ally and then we're appending it to the list for each thing in our to
do's array which is coming from our get Jason which is calling add to do.
Let's test it refresh our page.
Perfect.
Take a look at that.
We're getting our views here.
So they're untitled.
So the last thing that we can do is actually add a class defined it down here.
There's a class called task.
There we go that task and we can do it a couple of ways you could do new to do that add class and then
give it task or we could just do this because this line is not super long.
We'll just added in here we just have to pay attention to using double quotes versus single quotes.
OK let's test it out.
Refresh the page.
There we go.
So we get to this little hover effect and we're not completely done with what we need to actually insert.
But we're done for now with this video.
But as you can see we don't have a delete button showing up yet.
We want that to happen.
So when we insert a new to do there should be a delete button for each one.
That's part of the slide.
So eventually in here they'll also be a button but we're not there yet.
So what we've done is we wrote get Jason to go fetch all of the current Tadeusz using our API then we
loop through them in AD to use code and for each one we make a new ally with the class task with you
to do that name.
And then we append it.
So we'll end it there.
The next thing we want to do is get the dues to reflect their current state their completion.
If they're done or not appropriately so that if some of these are done they appear checked off when
the page loads.
So that's next.